# Question Answering Project

This project aims to provide a question answering (QA) system using Hugging Face's Transformers library. It leverages various components such as load_dataset, train_test_split, data preprocessing techniques, model training, evaluation, and deployment using Hugging Face's ecosystem.


## Table of Contents
* Introduction to Question Answering
* Installation
* Usage
* Dataset Preparation
* Training
* Evaluation
* Deployment


## Introduction to Question Answering
Question answering (QA) is a natural language processing task that involves providing accurate and relevant answers to user queries or questions. In the context of this project, the QA system is designed to take a question and a context (e.g., a passage of text) as input and generate the correct answer based on the information contained in the context.


## Installation
To use this project, you need to have Python installed on your system. You can then install the required dependencies using the following command:

_pip install transformers[torch] datasets gradio_


## Usage
To utilize the question answering system, follow the steps outlined below:

1. Prepare your dataset or use one of the existing datasets available through the datasets library.
2. Train the QA model using the provided scripts.
3. Evaluate the model's performance using the evaluation script.
4. Deploy the trained model for inference using Gradio.


## Dataset Preparation
The load_dataset function from the datasets library is utilized to load the dataset. This project also includes functionality for data preprocessing, such as removing null or empty records using train_test_split and custom preprocessing functions.


## Training
The training process involves:

1. Tokenization of the input data using AutoTokenizer.
2. Preprocessing the data to extract the start and end positions of the answer span.
3. Training the QA model using AutoModelForQuestionAnswering.
4. Utilizing TrainingArguments to specify training configurations.
5. Training the model using the Trainer class and a specified DefaultDataCollator.


## Evaluation
Evaluation of the trained model is performed using the F1 score metric, which measures the model's accuracy in predicting the answer span. This is calculated using the f1_score function.


## Deployment
The trained model can be deployed for inference using Gradio, which provides a simple interface for users to interact with the QA system. This allows users to input questions and receive corresponding answers generated by the model.
